								Therapy for INSThe past decade has seen a sea-change in the treatment of infantile nystagmus syndeomr (INS) and a new realizaton of the multifactorial nature of visual function. For many patients with INS, primary-position visual acuity is not only an insufficiant measure of visual function but also not the most important measure. That is why broadening the range of gaze angles where a patient's INS waveform has high-quality foveeation results in both a significant increase in visual function and a satisfied, even ecstatic, patient whether or not there has been an accompanying increase in primary position visual acuity. That, coupled with a decreased target acquisition time has a profound impact on their daily lives.These advances stem from the introduction of a simple surgical procedure, the tenotomy and reattachment (T&R) procedure. This procedure by itself (in some patients with no alternative surgical options) and in combination with standard nystagmus and strabismus surgeries, produces the above improvements in INS waveforms and visual function.That the T&R procedure does what it was designed to do (i.e., improve the foveation quality of INS waveforms) can no longer be denied. The proprioceptive hypothesis of how the T&R procedure improves nystagmus waveforms without altering saccades is our contribution to epistomology. In light of the plethora of publications demonstrating both anticipated and unanticipated therapeutic effects of the T&R procedure, one must differentiate between 'justified belief' and 'unsupported opinion' when faced with simple declarative denials of its therapeutic efficacy (e.g., "I don't believe it works"). Given the overwhelming success of this procedure in both INS and AN, it is now incumbant on the remaining skeptics to provide a scientific, data-based defense of their recalcitrant and increasingly indefensible denials. Absent such data, their groundless protestations are best ignored. However, their refusal to afford their patients the best available therapeutic intervention goes beyond bad science; it is bad medicine.With the aid of the internet, patient-education organizations have grown in both the US and UK. As a reslult, an educated patient population, unafraid to challange their physicians to provide evidence in support of their "beliefs," is a growing force that is increasingly resulting in patients demanding and receiving effective therapy from enlightened physicians.Nystagmus has been a long-neglected portion of resident education in ophthalmology where simplistic  and incorrect mythology has been substituted for scientific study. Now, decades of careful studies that essentially debunk comfortable ophthalmological myths, are beginning to make inroads into the thinking of even those who have been loath to part them. Fortunately, the combination of patient- and physician-education in the field of nystagmus diagnosis and therapy is moving the practice of medicine in this area from the ninteenth to the twenty-first century, hopefully burying the mistakes of the past century.epistemology: the theory of knowledgeontology: the theory of realityDiscuss 'justified belief' and 'unsupported opinion' regarding the T&R procedure.